This is an interview with Jerry Singleton by
Barbara Bell on May 4, 1989, in Dallas, Texas,
concerning his involvement in the Vietnam War.
Due to the continuing interest in the Vietnam War
by historians, students, and researchers, I
would like to submit this tape to the Texas A&M
archives. Is that OK with you? Yes, it is. OK,
thanks. OK, I wanted to begin with asking you about
your military career before the American
involvement in Vietnam. Isn't it true that you had
started out choosing the military as a career? You
didn't just enlist at the time of the war? Not
exactly Barbara. I went to the Air Force Academy.
That was the source of my commission. My plan when I
went there was to fulfill my obligation which was
going to be a total of about five years including
pilot training. and I planned after that to get out
and go do some other things. Okay. As
I got into the Air Force on active duty, the
conviction to get out at the end of my obligation
became less strong, although it was still at least
off and on part of the plan. Of course, I was shot
down before I got to the termination of my
obligation. So it was kind of academic after that
point because I already had more than 10 years in
when I got back home. OK. What was your rank at the
time of your involvement in the war? What year did
you actually enter the war in? I went to Southeast
Asia in August, or excuse me, October of 1965. And I
was first lieutenant then, a pilot. OK. And then,
because you just relate your experiences, how
much involved in the war before you got shot down?
How many months? One. One month. I was over there a
very short time. I was in an air rescue squadron.
Our mission was to rescue other American military
pilots that were shot down over enemy territory,
especially over the north. We were the first
what we call permanent party contingent with a
long range rescue capability to be over there.
Everybody else that had been there before us doing
that kind of mission had been there on a temporary
duty assignment, usually not to last more than a
month or two. We were called in over there because
that was just about the time the air war in North
Vietnam was
really getting to be substantial and regular.
Earlier than fall of 65, there had been some
airstrikes, but they had been sporadic. There had
been no continuous strikes. OK. What was your own
personal attitude towards the American
involvement at the time that you were sent over?
I personally felt like it was a war that needed to be
fought.
That there were, there was, well, first of all,
North Vietnam had been partitioned in 1954.
At the end of the French involvement in Indochina.
At that point, North and South Vietnam were, the
country was divided into North and South. North
was communist, the South was not. at least as far as
I'm able to tell generally, that was by the choice
of each country. The North Vietnamese, like
communism typically, cannot tolerate a
contradiction. And they won't settle for, not
only will they not settle for any alternative in
their own domain, but they feel, really an
evangelistic obligation to reform the rest of the
world, they see it as reformation
to make the rest of the world communist. And
everything that I have seen about communism, at
least through about five years ago, put them in a
position of
of allowing themselves only one of three
alternatives with regard to the world, the
non-communist world. And that was either to
convert us or kill us or die in the effort.
Generally, the South Vietnamese did not want to be
communist. That doesn't mean that they did
everything right either. They're human beings
like all of us. But they chose to pursue their own
goals with a non-communist governmental
organization. The North Vietnamese would not
stand for that if they felt there was anything they
could do about it. And the question really was not
could they do anything about it, but what. And they
chose a a form of promoting their ideal that
was I guess generally attributed to Mao Zedong the
protracted conflict which amounts to continuing
to apply whatever means are appropriate at the
time whether it's political military or
somewhere in between to convert whoever it is
that's their target at the time. Of course, in this
case, it was more than just South Vietnam. Their
target was Laos, South Vietnam, Cambodia, and a
longer time range target, of course, also was
Thailand. They were active in all four of those
countries. Their primary effort was in South
Vietnam, and that's where our confrontation
came. I felt like we ought to be there, not because I
necessarily agreed with everything that the
South Vietnamese were doing, but I felt that they
ought to have the right to decide for themselves
without somebody holding a gun to their head
trying to convince them to choose another path.
And that's what I felt like North Vietnam was
doing. I've heard the argument before that we were
imposing our government upon the South
Vietnamese. How do you react to that?
I think perhaps we were doing more of that than we
should. I'm not sure that we had a whole lot of
choice given the situation. In other words, we
don't want to take our Army, Navy, and Air Force and
give them to a commander of another country and
say, OK, we're going to let you use our soldiers to
fight your war. That means that we're going to have
to have some say in the way the war is prosecuted by
our side, our side meaning us as well as the South
Vietnamese and others that would ally with us. in
Southeast Asia. So your overall attitude as you
went over was, would you say enthusiastic or at
least supportive? Supportive of the goal. I
think there's a popular misconception among
civilians about military people, those who
willingly and voluntarily choose a military
career, that we're hawks.
That's perhaps true of a very, very minor
minority. But of the group in general, just the
opposite is true. Because when war comes, we're
the ones that pay the price first, we're the ones
that pay the price most, and our families too.
That's the last thing in the world we want. My
personal feeling was that I felt privileged to
live in the kind of country that we lived in.
more freedom than any place else in the world that I
knew about. Freedom to just live our lives the way
we saw fit, make our own choices, pursue personal
goals. We didn't have that freedom except by
having earned it, mostly in armed combat. To earn
it initially as well as to preserve it from those
that wanted to oppose some of their ideals on us.
I also felt that
I could not expect to or demand the right to
continue enjoying that kind of freedom and all the
benefits of living here
and ask someone else to go out and do the fighting
for me to continue to protect it and preserve it for
us as well as other nations in the world that want to
have the same right of choice that we do. I didn't
feel like I had the right to expect someone else to
do all the dirty work and consequently while I
certainly didn't want to go to war I wasn't
dragging my heels. It seemed like an appropriate
obligation and I would certainly
Especially at that time, given the nature of
communism as we were able to know it as it
manifested itself, I would much rather knock
heads with them someplace else than having to do it
in my own backyard when my wife and kids are sitting
in the house. Would you say then, or did you feel
that the North Vietnamese attack upon South
Vietnam was maybe an indirect attack? upon
America? You were talking about defending your
country, so did you feel that if it went too far it
could eventually threaten us or threaten our
allies? Well, the activity in Southeast Asia
specifically was not a threat to us. As one more
manifestation of the Communist desire to convert
the world, or they would feel it was an obligation.
It was a part of the same effort. That particular
part was not pointed directly at me and my family in
this country. But if they hadn't had to exert time
and effort in prosecuting that war over there, it
would have left them a lot more resources to employ
in a manner that would have had a more direct effect
on our country. OK. Another one of the issues
brought up at times is that some of the people that
went to war had the black and white mentality of
previous wars. The World War II, we're good,
they're bad. the same with Korea, and that maybe
that wasn't necessarily applicable to the
Vietnam War. Do you feel that that attitude was
prevalent, that yes, we're good, they're bad, and
that's the way it is, we need to go out and defeat
them? Or do you think it was a little more gray maybe
once we got into it? I think it depends on who you're
asking the question to.
For me, the lines were pretty clearly drawn. And I
say that not because it seemed so white on our side,
but because the communists had made it clear that
they would not accept anything less or anything
else than a communist-dominated, ruled,
operated world. they gave every indication that
since the end of the Second World War that that was
their goal. Every time we turned around they were
taking off another chunk here and another bite
there and I really felt like
like the communist world primarily dominated by
Soviet communism and Chinese communism there is a
difference but their goals were the same that if if
we did not stand up every time they confronted
part of the non-communist world someplace
there wasn't anyone else who really had the the
strength to do it. And if we didn't stand up, and
every time we did, they took another piece out of
what had formerly been a non-communist part of the
work. It was chipping away? Yes. And everything
they said and everything they did indicated they
had a single mindset, and it was all going that same
direction. So in that sense, it was black and
white. In another sense,
there was a whole lot of gray even to me. Our
nation's not perfect.
And as much as I dislike communism in general,
everything they're trying to do is not bad. So it's
a mix. And I think for our nation, I think
whatever issues people may have thought of
regarding that war, in general, were extremely
clouded at best. This is a question that historian
after historian after historian has analyzed.
And as succinctly as you can, what is your opinion
on the reason why we lost the war? Do you feel it's
the way we fought it, the government, the
administration? lack of leadership qualities.
There's been so many different theories. Before
we get into your own personal experiences, just as
an overall view. I don't think we ever decided what
we intended to do when we went there. That's about
as succinct as it can be. We never had well-defined
goals or objectives. And it ate our lunch the whole
time we were involved. it hampered our leadership
because without a goal they felt like they ought to
do something but they didn't know what and every
action was taken they had no goal to measure it by to
say yes we're going the right direction or no we
need to do something else and kind of feeling their
way along yeah now that's very simplified there's
a whole lot more to it than that and i think probably
just about any of the theories that have been
espoused in this regard at least have some merit
and have a part to play someplace. Okay. Well,
let's move along then to your own personal
experience since that's the most interesting to
me at this point. Again, if you want to start with
the actual date of your capture, however you want
to go about it, you were flying, were you a pilot at
the time? I was a pilot. We were on a rescue mission.
We were attempting to rescue an F-105 pilot that
had been shot down a day earlier. There was a
search mission in progress trying to locate him.
One of the search aircraft was shot down, and we
were scrambled to rescue the pilot of one of the
search aircraft. That was the 6th of November,
1965. We were shot down that afternoon on the way in
to make the rescue. About what part, what area was
going around? We were about 35 to 40 miles from
Hanoi, which was, we were flying a rescue
helicopter unarmed. It was a very early version.
very limited capability and increased
vulnerability for a number of reasons, which
really put us between a rock and a hard place. It was
also early in the war. We had no
rescue history to learn from, at least in the
Vietnamese context. So we were trying to figure
out how to write the book as we were flying our
missions. And
you were first taken to, apparently you were
shifted from several different camps, correct?
Where did they take you first? Well, I managed to
play hide and seek for about five days before they
finally caught me. And was taken out to a road. I was
just guarded kind of in an open cave, a half-open
cave, for a couple of days. They took me to a couple
of the local villages, and I was the show-and-tell
for the local political cadres. I was taken to
another prison that I'm sure had been used by the
French, was now used by the North Vietnamese for
their own political prisoners, I'm sure. I spent
about five days there, and then was taken to Hanoi.
That was, in Hanoi, was kind of the introduction to
the real POW system in North Vietnam. Up until
then, we were just being escalated up the chain
from the people who captured us and really didn't
know what to do into people who were a little better
trained, a little closer to the home operation
until we finally arrived in Hanoi. What are your
first impressions of the place? Were you
blindfolded a lot of the time or did you see it as you
were walking in? We were blindfolded.
There were three of us, I think, being moved at the
same time, three members of my crew. We had not
gotten together on the ground. We hadn't seen each
other since bailout. We did get to identify each
other with names, but we'd catch a rifle button
aside for talking and looking out from under the
blindfold. So we were doing as much as we could get
away with. My first sensation was being hungry,
because I'd been five days without food or water. I
felt like that was the way I started off, and I
really never got full until I got out. I believe it.
It wasn't quite that bad, because toward the end,
they did try to fatten us up to make things look
better.
That, the time when I was captured was still early
enough in the war when they
had not even formulated a, the North Vietnamese
had not even formulated a procedure as to what to do
with us, much less a plan. So it was a lot easier for
us to get away with things We had been through
survival training, we had been through simulated
POW situations,
and at least had some idea of what to expect. I was
surprised at how good the training was. Was it
fairly accurate? I had no surprises for the first
year. Wow. And I could write the script for them
when they took me to that first village that I just
described. One of the local political cadres was
supposed to be interrogating me and speaking
through an interpreter. He wouldn't answer his
questions. So I knew that wasn't going to last
long. The next thing he pulled out his little 9mm
automatic and put it up to my head and I was going to
have to answer the questions or he was going to
shoot me. Essentially, from the survival
training, I knew one of two things were going to
happen. Either he was going to kill me or he wasn't.
And whether I answered his silly questions wasn't
going to make any difference. So that's kind of the
way things went, at least through that first year.
Once we got into Hanoi and into
the hands of those who were prepared to guard us and
treat us as prisoners, things got to be a little
different. Some of the senior officers had
already been very severely tortured, badly
mistreated, and we were the whole time.
I say the whole time until the end. Right before the
end, things changed rather substantially. But
the All of the communist countries that signed the
Geneva Conventions on the treatment of prisoners
of war took exception to one of the provisions. And
with invariably American military men captured
by communists are treated as war criminals. And
they claim that's what we are because of the
exception they take. So that was their attitude
toward us. Also, The general communist approach
to our treatment of prisoners of war is
exploitation. They're the ones who first really
used that idea. Historically, before that point,
you might try to torture the prisoners to get some
military information.
Generally, other countries didn't want to keep
prisoners because it just meant you had to house
and feed them, and they were excess baggage. But
either extraction of military information or
treating them as excess baggage was the only
approach toward prisoners. The communists
decided to exploit them for political purposes.
And what that meant, among other things, was they
were continually trying to extract or extort some
kind of information paper or statement from us
that they could use for political propaganda. And
they would call you in and want you to sign a
statement of discrediting your country and
then... Yeah, except usually they wanted us to
write it because they weren't that sophisticated
in English to do it themselves. And that left us a
little bit out too. On the topic of exploitation,
one good example of that would be the March of
Hanoi, and you took part in this, correct? Yes. Can
you talk about that? Apparently there were
different versions of what it was for, depending
on who you heard, which government talked about
it. Okay.
It was really bad news all the way, Barbara.
It appeared from everything that I've seen and
heard that they had
probably three purposes in mind. The most
important was pumping up their own people. North
Vietnam had been bombed rather heavily for a year
by that time. They had taken a lot of hits up there.
They needed something to pump their own people up
and say, hey, come on, take some more of this. It's
going to be worth it. We were the only thing that
they had to show for their efforts. Supposedly,
they were accomplishing a lot in South Vietnam,
but it wasn't anything that people could look at.
But they could look at us, and we were their
victories. So they took probably what amounted to
about half the prisoners. I never bothered to try
to quantify it, but about half what they had at that
time. They handcuffed us in pairs, separated each
pair. We were just walking in files, one pair
behind the next, separated each pair by probably,
oh, initially eight or 10 yards. When the parade
first started off, the sidewalk was really
crowded, but the people there didn't know what to
do. It was just kind of this very awkward,
kind of an incomprehensible, well, yeah, I see,
but what do I do? Silence. So we were unblindfolded
at this time. There was a North Vietnamese guard on
each side of a pair, one of our prison guards. They
had their rifles with them. Then it was very easy to
pick out who were the instigators, the local
political leaders. And they'd start some kind of
yell. It was like a cheer. And they'd turn around
and the people behind them, yeah, yeah, me too, me
too. And you could see this whole thing then get
started that way. And it was slow getting started.
But once it got started, it really boiled over. And
it's a long story in and of itself. But by the time we
finished, I really didn't think we were going to
get out alive. I really didn't. They were throwing
rocks, bricks, whatever they could. They were
trying to mob us. And before the parade ended, the
guards that were there to make sure we stayed in our
place as prisoners were literally using their
rifles to protect us in the crowd. Rifle butts, the
barrel of the rifle, whatever they could. They
didn't shoot anybody that I saw. But the guards and
the officers were doing the same thing. It was very
apparent. that the whole thing got completely out
of hand, and they weren't ready to handle it. And a
lot of our guys took a lot of bumps and bruises, but
that was all the physical damage that we suffered
from it. I don't know how long it lasted. It seemed
like it was a couple of weeks. It was probably about
an hour and a half, two hours at the most. And that
kind of thing never happened again as a result.
They threatened it a number of times, at least
within the prison system. Interrogators
threatened us, but it never happened again. And
how did North Vietnamese interpret this to the
world, their version of it? It was just their proof
of ongoing victory. See just a sampling of the many
hundreds of American flyers that we've captured.
which is the result of the many thousands of
airplanes we shot down. And I forget to, we figured
out a pretty accurate ratio
of the number of planes they actually shot down to
what they claimed. I forget right now what it was,
but it was somewhere between six and ten to one
planes per actuals. Slightly exaggerated. Yes,
oh yeah. Okay, well, Within the camp itself, you
talked about you were kept in various size
compartments, from solitary to 50. Can you
discuss a few of those? Perhaps the solitary, that
was at the beginning of your term, correct? Yeah.
First of all, most of the places that we stayed,
uh several of the places where prisoners were kept
were not designed as prisons to begin
one of the biggest apparently had been a french
film studio and i spent several months there
several years there as it accumulated over the
time that's where i spent about the first six
months in solitary confinement i was two weeks in
the Hanoi Hilton in the section we called
Heartbreak Hotel. Then was taken to, we called it
Camp A at that time. And spent the better part of the
next six months there. My cell was, for the most
part, was a large room with windows that had bars in
it. and shutters on the outside of the windows so I
couldn't look out. The bed was a bunch of boards
nailed together and
sat directly on the floor. I was given some string
to tie a mosquito net up over there, tie the string
to the bars on the windows and at least give me a
place to stay out on mosquitoes at night. I had a
room probably initially as big as this room. Which
is about? Oh, what, 16 feet square, something like
that, roughly. So it wasn't the small cell that I
would imagine. Not initially. But this was just
because they were looking for places to keep us.
They weren't prepared to handle prisoners of war.
They hadn't planned for that logistically. So
initially that was a big room. I had it all to
myself. The only furniture was a bed and a tin
bucket over in the corner that had a wooden lid that
sat on the top that was my toilet. How did you, did
you make use of this area then for what physical
exercise? Did you, I was going to talk about the
different ways you basically exercise both
mentally and physically. Yes. You can take them in
either order you want. I'm assuming that you
started to communicate with people next to you or
did you wait until you got back to the Hanoi Hilton?
Okay, the primary communication tool was what we
came to call a tap code. Are you familiar with what
that is? Right. Okay, you know how that works then.
The North Vietnamese really helped us out a lot in
passing that tap code around. When I was still at
Heartbreak Hotel, I was taken to another room for
interrogation. was left there to kind of cool my
heels and apparently make me nervous for a while.
Sat in front of this desk on a stool. The desk was for
the officer who was going to come interrogate me.
And there wasn't anybody there, so I started
looking around. And right square in the middle on
the top of this desk, carved with a nail, was the
matrix for the tap code. And a little note above it
says, all American POWs learned this. And they
didn't read English very well, I'm assuming. And,
you know, some guy that had been there before me and
had had time took his nail, and that was one of the
primary tools we had, used it for almost
everything. Eventually they figured that out,
right? Yeah. And put it into at least the passing it
around that way. Yes. But it got around. Everybody
learned it. Let's see, I've lost track of what the
question was. Well, I was going to say, how long did
it take you to learn it? I mean, the first six months
you were there, did someone initiate it next door
to you? Well, I mentioned Jim Stopdale. Okay. And I
had been in heartbreak about five minutes when he
started talking to me. And, you know, filled me in
very quickly on communication procedures. There
were guys on the cells on either side. There were a
total of six or seven in the heartbreak cell block
at that time. We were able to communicate by
talking fairly well in that situation. So I didn't
have to use the tap code a lot until I got to another
camp a couple weeks later. Was it very thin walls or
through the window more? Most of the time, the
walls were pretty thick. They would often leave a
dead space, even in the walls between rooms, for
insulation, especially in the prisons. I'm sure
they did it to limit communications. But we
finally reached the point, especially in the
larger cells, where we had some other
capabilities that we didn't when we were alone,
one or two guys, of being able to talk through those
walls verbally. You had to make sure you were
secure as far as the North Vietnamese were
concerned. But everybody came online very
quickly. And as far as the ability and learning the
skills we had there to communicate were
concerned.
That was one of our primary efforts. teaching new
guys how to communicate and establishing initial
communications with them was one of the things
that everybody pulled out all the stops on. A lot of
guys got caught communicating and knew that they
were going to be tortured for it, knowing full well
it was going to happen. But they went ahead and did
it to establish initial communications with the
new guys. And that kind of, just talking about
that, I guess, signify the incredible importance
of the communication. Yes. I was going to say, to
retain your sanity in that entire situation,
would you say that that would be one of the major,
major aspects that got you through the whole
thing? It was absolutely essential. It was very
easy to tell when a guy had been even with a large
group for a long time and taken out for just a week or
two and held in solitary confinement while they
were trying to lean on him for a war crimes
confession or something like that. People
alone tend to get out of balance, at least as far as
society is concerned. We need each other to say,
hey, you're great on most things, but that idea's
crazy. Here's why. If you don't have somebody
there to tell you that,
it's very easy to avoid realizing that one idea out
of 10 really is crazy. So we knew it was essential.
We'd been trained beforehand in the survival
schools that we'd gone through to communicate.
Had they taught you any codes at all in the
survival? That was an old Boy Scout code that some
guy had brought in and said, hey, it'll work here.
The Morse code didn't work as well there. This
worked a lot better. It was a lot simpler. for what
we had to work with. What kind of things besides
names? I read that people memorize all the names of
who was in their cell. What kind of things did you
talk about? Was it mainly who is where and what's
going on? Or was it, what kind of things would you
talk about day to day? OK, the first priority was
keeping track of prisoners. Who's been shot down
that hasn't showed up yet that we need to be looking
for? Who do we know that is alive that has been
captured in custody of the North Vietnamese?
Where are they? If they've been moved, where have
they been moved to? If somebody's disappeared,
then we gotta figure out what happened to them.
That was the first priority. The second priority
was a combination of finding out what the
Vietnamese were currently about Usually the way
they worked would be a single purpose purge.
They'd go through the whole camp. This week it's
going to be war crimes confessions. Next week it's
going to be apologies to the camp commander for
communicating. It can be anything. Sometimes it
was military information. We wanted to find out
what the current purge was about. Frequently that
was the situation and just knowing what they were
going to be looking for helped us get better
prepared. I was going to say prepare yourself
mentally. Yeah. It was a combination of figuring
out what the North Vietnamese were about and
getting direction from the senior officers. So
the military chain of command, was it somewhat
intact? It was absolutely intact. Incredibly,
wow. How did that, were there actual orders going?
Okay, the second thing you found out about a guy
once you got his name and identified him was his
rank and date of rank to know where he fitted into
the chain of command. And you might have one boss
one day and a new guy gets shot down and you got a new
boss the next day. they were smart enough to say,
okay, who's been running this thing? What are the
policies that the Americans have had up at this
point and why? And I'll get on board from there and
make changes slowly. How did everybody react to
that? Was there ever an incident of, I really don't
care what he says, I'm just going to do my own thing?
Or was there an overall bond, a unity of, hey, if we
don't stick together, we're not going to make it
kind of thing? I would say there were some When you
leave people in that kind of situation where you
have aggravations coming from every side for long
enough, you're going to get some anger, some
disappointment, some disagreement, and it'll be
vocalized. But
my experience for the whole seven years there was
there was never any doubt about what our
responsibility was. If we were senior, we were to
take command. If we were not senior, we were to fill
our place in the chain of command, whatever that
might be. So it worked probably better there than
it does here. It was more important there that we
follow that chain of command for a number of
reasons. And we did. The kind of... Maybe the type
of activities you underwent maybe in the cell by
yourself. I've heard stories about mental type of
activities. Someone who would imagine that he was
building a house. And it would go nail by nail by
nail. Or somebody else would do math problems over
and over and over and just work their mind that way.
What kind of things did you do to keep your mind
busy? Well, first of all, physical exercise was
important. And we did that. to a man, as far as I
know.
The amount of that that we could do depended on the
diet. When we were getting bread, we could do
better. When we were getting rice, we couldn't do
as well. And it was very obvious in that kind of a
situation. But almost everybody had some kind of a
personal plan of physical exercise. And it was
just about a daily routine.
For the mental activities, there was a lot more
variation there. It depended on the situation. If
you were alone, you had to play solitaire,
whatever form that might take. If you were in a
large group like we were toward the end and had more
open communications, we had formal classes in
science, humanities, foreign languages, math,
just about anything you could think of. A friend of
mine who was one of the few pilots shot down who did
not have a degree came home after the war, went to
get his degree, and was able to validate almost 25
credits, semester hours credit, just because of
the quote courses, unquote, that he took in North
Vietnam. Such as? What kind of courses were the
standard? Language, math, science.
Those were probably the most useful. We had one guy
in a cell that I was in toward the end there who had
been a
thermodynamics instructor at the Air Force
Academy. So we had a lot of capability there. I
taught some classes on French,
chemistry, a little bit of math, and bridge. Now
how did the guards react to this? Because you said
at the beginning they were a little, they weren't,
you know, they didn't really encourage the
communication at all, but then towards the, this
was what, in the early 70s? Yeah,
70, late 71 and thereafter. Mm-hmm. late 70 and
thereafter.
And at that point they didn't really mind? They did
mind, but they
were in a bind then.
Let's see. It's been a long time, Barbara, since
I've done any thinking about this, so I'm a little
off on, I'm a little fuzzy on my timing, but several
things happened
toward the end of the 60s. Two were extremely
important. One was the families of those who were
prisoners or were missing finally got together
and began communicating with each other. Up to
that point, the U.S. government had made a very
concerted effort to keep them isolated from each
other. It was a dumb policy. President Nixon
changed that. And the families got together and
organized their own efforts, saying, hey, the
government has been able to do absolutely
nothing, including they haven't been able to stop
the torture. Is this where the letter-writing
campaign began? Among other things. Writing
letters, bracelets, Bonnie can tell you volumes
about that because she was right in the middle of
getting it organized and carrying it out. But all
of a sudden the North Vietnamese realized that
they were making Americans as a nation mad at them
because of the way they were treating us. Up to that
point America as a nation had been divided on
everything that pertained to the war.